# Predictive-Analysis-in-E-commerce-for-Customer-Behaviour-and-Demand-Forecasting
The project entitled “Predictive Analysis in E-Commerce for Customer Behaviour and Demand Forecasting” is a web-based application which has been designed using ASP.Net 2022 as front-end tool and MS SQL Server 2019 as back-end tool.
In the present project, Predictive analytics is a set of technologies and approaches to working with historical data collected from the online sources as secondary data. The present software is mainly used to make future predictions by analyzing the historical dataset of about online purchases made by various customers in multiple times. 
The proposed system evaluates the dataset which includes the Sales number, Sales date, Main Category name, Sub Category name, Brand name, Product code, Product name, Qty Purchased, Color Name, Festival Flag, Festival name, Size name, Gender, Locality Purchased, Age Group, Month, Season, Price, Price Group, Rating. Based on these variables as main factors, the mean ranking analysis can be applied to evaluate the Mean raking analysis of Main Category Wise, Sub Category Wise, Brand Name Wise, Product Name Wise, Color Wise, Festival wise, Gender Wise, Locality Wise, Age Group Wise, Month Wise, Season Wise.
In the Proposed project, machine learning algorithms like K-Nearest Neighbour algorithm, Naïve Bayes Classifier algorithms can be applied for future predictions. Due to today’s transition from visiting physical stores to online shopping, predicting customer behaviour in the context of the e-commerce is gaining importance. Predictive analytics to predict user intentions toward a specific product or a category on an e-commerce website is very useful for demand forecasting. Forecasting plays a very important role in the operations of management. It is important and necessary aid to planning and planning is the backbone of effective operations. This demand forecasting serves as the starting point for many activities such as warehousing, shipping, price forecasting and especially, supply planning that aims at fulfilling the demand and requires data on the anticipated need of customers.
The primary objective of this project is to analyze various e-commerce customer behaviour and anticipate the demand for effective supply chain management. This project will be more helpful to identify the needs of the customer. By proper analysis of the data sets we can conclude the customer need.
